# Calorie Replacer App - Group Project 1

## Overview

We initially conceived of an app that would receive user input to provide recipes and nutritional information to supplement their workout. After the initial Manatee Tank meeting with instructors and getting feedback on the originality of the app, we pivoted slightly and modified our goal to be more lighthearted. **Calorie Replacer** will take simple information from the user in the form of height, weight, age, gender and exercise regimen and return a random link to a recipe which should provide an equal number of calories to what was lost during the exercise. Many exercise apps are solely focused on the tracking and burning of calories; Calorie Replacer fully acknowledges that and will further suggest a variety of ways to get those calories back in a hurry.

Calorie Replacer is made with HTML, the UIkit CSS library, and jQuery.

## User Flow

Calorie Replacer has a four-part flow.

1. **User Profile** - the user can input information about their body metrics-- age, height and weight, which are all required-- as well as gender and name. There is an option to save the profile to the browser using localStorage for later retrieval (Save Profile & Load Profile buttons in the form). The user may also reset the form if needed. The "Use Profile" button will trigger the next section of the app only when all required fields have been completed with valid information. If one or more of the required fields contains no or invalid information, a modal will appear alerting the user to correct the issue before moving to the next section.

2. **Enter Your Workouts!** - This is a text area that will accept *natural language* input-- for example, "I ran for 45 minutes and did yoga for 1 hour." We passed the text input along with the user profile information to the [Nutritionix API](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_q-K-ObMTZvO0qUEAxROrN3bwMujwAN25sLHwJzliK0/edit) to return calorie information to the browser. This API seems robust and has little issue with parsing text input into valid query parammeters for the request. It will discard any non-usable information without throwing errors in the browser.

3. **Workout Results** - Since the user may enter multiple workouts, variables in our script track the number of workouts and return the running total amount of calories. This is displayed in the third section in an easy-to-read format.

4. **What To Eat** - This section simply displays the user's name, calculated caloric deficit, and a number of servings of a random recipe that we pulled using the [Edamam Recipe API](https://developer.edamam.com/edamam-docs-recipe-api). The user is then invited to view the recipe on another tab, or generate another random recipe. The results are generated by taking the total number of calories from Section 3 and parsing that variable through the API request.

## Issues

- **API Requests** - We initially had some trouble with our first request to the Nutritionix API as it involved a POST method instead of GET, in addition to requiring headers, but quickly resolved this with assistance from instructors. Otherwise, integration of the results of the first API call with the request URL for the second went smoothly; scripting for each call was coded by separate devs.

- **Recipe Results not Showing** - Intermittently, Section 4 will not trigger. We have not been able to debug this issue. 

- **String Manipulation** - We attempted to display the final results correctly with regard to plural terms and in/exclusion of the word "recipe". We wrote string manipulation functions to mitigate these display issues but haven't been completely successful (some results display "artichokess" or similar).

- **Dead Links** - External links to some recipes are dead or outdated, but this is out of our scope.

## Resources

- [Nutritionix API](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_q-K-ObMTZvO0qUEAxROrN3bwMujwAN25sLHwJzliK0/edit)

- [Edamam Recipe API](https://developer.edamam.com/edamam-docs-recipe-api)

- [UIkit](https://getuikit.com/)

- [jQuery](https://jquery.com/)

- [W3Schools](https://www.w3schools.com/)

- [MDN Web Docs](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/)

## Screenshots

add screenshots here.

